From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Trip 1998 -- part 14
Date: Mon, 12 Oct 1998 02:26:14 EDT

Hi everyone again.
I still haven't caught up with my journal entry.  You can't believe how much
time is spent running around and getting things done.  The five weeks won't
be nearly enough.  Please send money to help extend the trip for another
five weeks (just kidding, but only a little).

Cheers,
Rainer

Wednesday, 10/7 -- part 14

Side note:
	Today is actually Saturday, about 1715, and I'm writing this in
	a first class compartment of the train from Berlin to Munich.
	There are 3 other people in the compartment with us.  We're
	about 2 hours from arrival.  But more of this when I write about
	Saturday.  I am behind in the journal writing ever since we
	arrived in Berlin.  I plan to catch up this weekend.

It was nice to wake up and be able to make our own breakfast.  The sunny
day we had yesterday had given way to drizzly morning.  The air traffic
from Schoenefeld airport was quiet most of the night.  The jets started
around 0600, although most of us didn't wake up until later.  After
breakfast I figured out how to hook up the little washing machine.  Vera
started a load of laundry and Monika and I set out to find the grocery
store that we'd received directions to last night.

We planned with Thomas to meet at his apartment around noon, so we
thought we had plenty of time.  We didn't know the name of the grocery
store.  Brand-name recognition doesn't mean much.  Is the store an Ikea,
a Metro, a Hoffman, a Plus, or a Lidl?  I didn't know either.  Ikea and
Hoffman are building supply and home improvement places.  Plus and Lidl
are grocery stores.  They're not grocery stores like Thriftway or
Safeway, however.  They are much smaller and as a result with much less
selection of stuff.  I thought the instructions from last night
indicated that we should drive down this one road.  We did.  It appeared
to be a country road through the woods.  Monika and I decided that after
5 minutes of driving at a good clip through the woods that it did not
look like a shopping center was coming in this direction, so we headed
back.  We found a Plus store and shopped there.

Our shopping list was only partially filled.  The much-hoped-for refried
beans and tortillas were not to be found.  Mexican food cravings would
have to be calmed another way.

We called Thomas at 1030 to tell him we were leaving.  We expected to
driver just over an hour.  We got there just after 1430!  I won't even
try to explain were we ended up.  Suffice it to say that the at 1130 we
ended up stopping for lunch at the same McDonald's we'd had dinner the
night before, just a few kilometers from Bohnsdorf.  I tried using the
pay phone to call Thomas.  We were outside the Berlin city limits and
the number I dialed the night before didn't work today.  I learned later
that I was required to dial the city code from that particular pay
phone.  I digress for a moment.

	It's amazing how many things we do regularly and take for
	granted become an issue or a puzzle when you have to do them in
	a foreign country.  Can you turn right on a red light?  What are
	the speed limits when none are posted?  How much does a pay
	phone cost?  Do you dial first and then put in the coins or vice
	versa?  When do you dial that leading zero that's in parentheses
	on so many business card phone numbers?  How does the toilet
	flush?  How much money do you need to go the the restroom in the
	train station?  Does the bill include a tip?  Is the gas station
	self service?  What does the blue sign with the red X through it
	mean?  Why don't they have bags in the grocery store?

Since we were so close to "home", and since I had this slight doubt
about whether I remembered the phone number, I quick drove to the house
and called from there.  Thomas wasn't home, so I left a message telling
him that we had done a huge circle and would try again.  I still didn't
think of the GPS -- what a dumb thing to do.

When we did finally pick Thomas up, we drove the Unter den Linden, the
Berlin's one-time equivalent to the Champs Elysee.  We were amazed at
the amount of construction going on everywhere -- especially in the area
that used to be called East Berlin.  Cranes grow out of every tall
building.  Cement and sand and rebar are seen at almost every other
corner.  Huge networks of pipes carrying water from the river to the
construction sites are built above ground and run high over the streets
in pink, yellow, and blue pipe systems giving you this feeling that
you're on a set from the movie Brazil with all of it's duct work.  The
new construction and the old, ornate buildings, some from the 1600s
provide a juxtaposition that I've tried to capture in pictures.

You can still see the patched damage caused by gun fire on walls and
columns.  You see empty spaces between buildings where bombed out rubble
has been removed but not yet rebuilt.  You see brand new structures next
to old ones.  You hear jack hammers.  You hear church bells.  You see
graffiti everywhere.  Your mind and your eye don't know how to make
sense of this scene.  You see where the wall once was.  There are now
trinket salesmen there with Russian military medals and insignias for
sale.  There's a row of crosses along a fence by the Brandenburg Gate
noting people that died crossing the wall.  The last person shot trying
to escape died just six months before the wall came down.  We now walk
back and forth across a battle zone a few years ago.  It doesn't make
any sense at all.

We stopped for a coffee (or a beer and korn)at Zum Nussbaum -- a very
old inn/pub in the Nikolai quarter, one of the oldest sections of
Berlin.  It had a very cozy and friendly atmosphere.  We walked back to
the car via the old Rathaus (next to a huge telecommunications tower
whose top was obscured by the low clouds.

On the way to drop off Thomas, we stopped at the Bahnhof Zoo to make
reservations for our train travel to Munich.  It was very crowded and
all of the lines moved slowly.  Naturally, the line I got in moved
slower than all the rest.  The white ICE trains, the really fast ones,
had no seats available for all legs of the trip.  So we booked just an
IC train (inter city) but we wouldn't have to change trains.

We dropped Thomas off just as it was getting dark and declined getting
together for dinner.  We wanted to drive back to Bohnsdorf while it
there was still a little light left to read the map.  The last minute
instructions from Thomas on how to get on to the inner city Autobahn
proved faulty.  We were supposed to get on heading toward Templehof
airport.  Well, the signs only showed Zehlendorf or Schoeneberg.  Our
first wrong turn and we'd only just started the trip back.  Several
U-turns later we were on the right Autobahn.  We took the Templehof
exit but shouldn't have.  We got back on the Autobahn.  We managed to
get all the way to Schoenefeld airport.  That's when the real trouble
started.  It was now totally dark, too dark to make any sense out of the
map while driving.  Vera had had it.  We drove in circles.  We asked
directions.  People don't know street names.  They tell you to go this
way, or that, using lefts and rights to a point where you have trouble
just remembering the first part of the instructions.  Like in France,
the popular instructions in Germany are "immer gerade aus", keep going
straight.  We did make it even though Vera was probably convinced that
we'd end up sleeping in the car on some street this night.

It was just after 1930 when we got back.  Monika and I had heard from
Thomas that the really large shopping center we were looking for in the
morning really was down the road that we were on, just further.  We
were going to try to get to the center by 2000, when stores close, and
see about getting the missing shopping list items.  We found the center
in less than the 15 minutes drive we were told were required.  It was
2005 or so.  Still not knowing one store name from another, I asked at
the first gas station where a grocery store was.  "Just around the
corner" was the reply.  There we found the Lidl store with the doors
still allowing us entry.  As soon as we walked in I heard the woman at
the cashier say to her co-workers, "We need to lock the doors."  Lidl
was about the size of Plus.  No refried beans.  We decided on a can of
spiral noodles with tomato sauce and tiny meatballs, and can of chicken
soup.

It was good to eat a "home-cooked" meal.  We finished our night-time
activities on our respective surfaces.  I tried to complete a journal
entry, but this time the Schwarzbier worked earlier.
