From: Rainer7735@aol.com
Subject: Rainer's Europe  Trip 1998 -- part 21
Date: Thu, 22 Oct 1998 19:19:56 EDT

Hi All,

I think I'm really back.  Writing is easy again, the block is gone.
Even though it's 1 a.m. and the rest of the family is asleep, the
fingers and the thoughts keep working.  The wine is gone by now
and the minibar only has 2 beers (at most) so I'm pretty sure that
this is the last entry I'll send today/tonight.  Tomorrow we're leaving
Italy and getting rid of the rental car.  We're on the last legs now.
But, I jump ahead.  The part 21 that I'm sending hasn't even
reached Italy yet.  You'll find out soon enough what that was
like.

Cheers,
Rainer

Wednesday, 10/14 -- part 21

The night before we went to bed we agreed that the plans would be
flexible and that if the weather was like yesterday we would stay in
Ehrwald.  The clear starry sky gave way to low clouds that looked like
it would snow.  We packed up and left.  The day would be rainy most of
the way to Liechtenstein.

Shortly out of Ehrwald we climbed through a pass at whose summit we
stopped and did the tourist trinket thing some more.  We knew we were
going to encounter the Alpine tunnels and inquired about tolls.  Since we
didn't have many shillings left and since the ATM machine in Bieberwier
didn't work this was a concern.  The lady at the cashier sold us a pass
for 70 shillings.  We encountered the Alpine tunnels and the pass never
helped -- it was for the autobahn, but we never needed it there either.
Luckily, the tunnel toll booths accept Visa.  Why would anyone want to
use American Express?  The tunnels got longer and longer.  We drove
through the "second longest tunnel" in the Alps -- 13 kilometers.  We
got a sticker and a brochure and an addition to our Visa bill for quite
a few shillings.

On the other side of the long tunnel the weather turned worse.  It
really rained until we got to Liechtenstein.  This little country is
really just a Swiss valley along the beginnings of the Rhine (spelled
Rhein over here).  The country uses Swiss currency and Swiss border
guards.  This leaves the 52 (no kidding) Liechtensteiner
police/army/marine/navy/air-force personnel free to do other things.
This was the first border that we passed where there was any sort of
official activity (looking into the car and waving you on) since the
passport line in Charles de Gaulle airport.  The country is only 14
miles long and 3 or 4 miles wide.  We were going to "do" Liechtenstein.

We cruised through Vaduz, the capitol, past the royal vinyards and
castle where the Prince and Princess of this country live.  In fact, we
probably drove through almost 1/3 of the cities in this country before
we started looking for a hotel.  The first hotel we visited was in
Triesen -- in the low country.  The rooms were nondescript and large
and nothing clicked.  We drove onward and upward into the hills.  We
entered Triesenberg -- a village on the side of an alp above Triesen.
We found the Hotel Kulm which overlooked all of Liechtenstein but the
two young women in the office could not get the stupid PC to run the
program that would tell them whether or not there were any rooms
available.  The "boss" was out at the post office (which we later found
to be just around the corner from the hotel entrance so I guess the boss
was really out drinking beer or something) and they didn't know the
password.  The place looked empty even though it only had 15 rooms.  Oh
well.  We drove onward and upward.  The higher we drove on this alp the
smaller the hotels became.  Some were full, some weren't.  Vera found
the alpine cabin/hotel of her dreams -- right out of a Heidi book -- but
it smelled a bit too much of old stuff, only had a pay phone in the
hall, and was a long, twisty road away from downtown Liechtenstein.

We drove back down the alp the the Hotel Kulm.  The cook was back and
knew the password and confirmed that a room was available for a couple
of nights.  We saw the room -- didn't have a view -- but the phone
looked okay and it was clean and right.  We took it.  Maybe tomorrow a
room on the other side would open up.  We unpacked, looking forward to
another two night stay someplace.  The phones even had a jack that
looked compatible.  We had the right adapter, but these turned out to
be` ISDN lines.  Our modem didn't cut it.

Vera and I went to the "bar" for happy hour.  Monika stayed in the room
to update her journal.  The bar was empty.  In fact the hotel was empty.
One of the computer-illiterate young women we saw earlier finally
appeared and took our order.  The beer in Liechtenstein isn't great
either.  It's all imported from outside and they don't have a demand for
ales.  The wine was okay.  We got to study the dinner menus -- they even
had an English version.  It was "wild week" at the Kulm.  Deer, rabbit,
mountain sheep, wild pig, all sorts of delights were on the menu.  Bruce
would have loved it.  We, however, decided to try someplace else.

Since Triesenberg is on a berg, all of the streets either lead uphill or
downhill.  So no matter where you go, if you want to get back to where
you started from you have to go uphill.  Vera and I explored a minimal
radius away from the Kulm without having to do too much uphill.  In this
radius we found a very well manicured cemetery, a church, which rang
it's bell at every possible occasion ("three blind mice" rang once on
the 15 minute mark, twice on the 30 minute mark, three times on the 45
minute mark, and four times on the 60 minute mark at which time it also
rang a much larger bell to signal the hour itself; then, at arbitrary
times, like 0610 and 2150, all of the bells would ring for at least 10
minutes to signal some sort of religious event, I think.  The church, by
the way, was located just across from the Kulm, so we could hear it very
well, even with the windows closed and pillows over our heads.) and a
small establishment that advertised Conny's Bar and the Kainer
Restaurant.  Conny's Bar was dark, but the Kainer showed signs of life
and eating.  If you squinted just right the "K" in Kainer might look
like an "R" so we had to eat here.

It was  "wild week" at the Kainer, too.  But they also had a regular
menu.  We convinced Monika that wienerschnitzel was something that she
would like -- and she did.  Vera and I ordered different roesti dishes
which we enjoyed as well.  The waitress, wearing a nose ring, was a bit
stiff, but she was efficient.  Still not having figured out if
gratuities are included or not in Europe, I left a good tip since it was
likely that we might eat again here tomorrow.  The Kainer is a small
place, maybe 12 tables.  The corner table, overlooking all of
Liechtenstein from the berg that Triesenberg was on, seemed to be
reserved for the locals.  People came and went -- but the table was
always full.  During an ebb in the business cycle of the Kainer, the
cook came out and visited with each of the tables.  He asked us if "it
was right", loosely translated from the Liechtensteinian language which
is very similar to German.  We told him that it was "right" and he was
pleased.  He then lit up a cigarette and sat down at an open slot of the
corner table reserved for the locals.

We walked back to the Kulm to the serenade of church bells.
