From: Rainer
To: darrinm@synopsys.com
Subject: A journal of our trip so far
Date: Fri, 25 Sep 1998 04:41:52 EDT

Monday-Tuesday 9/21-22/98

This entry is a recollection several days later -- not on the days
indicated above, but rather about those days.  It all started so well.
It just didn't stay that way.  I got the web page started very early
Monday morning (getting very little sleep was supposed to help with the
time change).  We woke up on time.  And then things started going awry.
Monika's ride to school didn't show up because they were celebrating the
Jewish New Year (and forgot to tell us).  So I drove her to school.  The
dog got in the car okay -- he's always excited about going to the doggy
hotel.  The cat hid under the middle of the bed and couldn't be coaxed
out.  It was a good thing to have had her front claws removed.  The van
needed gas, especially since I wanted to get my last allergy shot.
Dropped the animals off without further incident and got my shot.  There
was a message to call home -- turned out the spare battery for the
laptop had arrived -- so off to Eagle without a badge to get the
battery.  Then I dropped off the videos.  It was after 11 when I got
home and I needed to finish packing.

Dietrich arrived early to take us to the airport.  That was nice.  As we
were walking out the door, we realized that Monika's jacket must have
been left at the Farm on Thursday since we couldn't find it anywhere.
Okay, we'll have to buy a jacket for her in Europe.  Already the
shopping list has started and we're barely out of the door.

The new, big-wheeled luggage works fine, although the four carry-ons are
a bit more than originally in the plan.  The 3 bottles of home brew and
some of the other presents for the few people we're going to visit have
to come.  Hopefully, we'll lose stuff as we go and thereby lighten the
load.  Right.  We'd already talked about sending a care package home
from Europe if/when we start acquiring trinkets.  Better to ship stuff
back and to lug it all around.  We get in the car.  Do you have the
tickets?  Do you have the passports?  Are we forgetting anything?

We get to PDX in plenty of time.  The line is non-existant at United.
But the plane has been delayed.  Only 30 minutes.  But the connection to
Air France in SFO comes up -- will there be enough time?  The United
person thinks so.  So we have a lunch at the Red Lion restaurant and
still have an hour to kill.  The flight's delayed another 30 minutes.
Oh oh.  The shuttle finally arrives, it's packed, people are asked to
check their carry ons to help make room.  With the scramble to get
everyone to plane (why don't they say that, they say de-plane?), we
sneak aboard with our extra stuff in tow.  The minutes tick by and we
haven't left the jetway yet.  We finally take off and all seems okay
again.  We'll make it.  We're probably still over Oregon when I suddenly
realize that I forgot to pack the serial cable that hooks my digital
camera to the laptop.  And tte AC adapter.  Shit.  My heart sinks.

We get to SFO around 5:45.  Air France leaves at 6:30.  Naturally, the
United shuttle lands as far away as possible from the international
terminal.  We hoof it since there are no courtesy carts to ferry late
arrivals.  The double security check for the international wing first
makes us give up the airport-ownded luggage cart -- it may have a bomb
in it -- then hassels us about not having Air France boarding passes --
I hope like mad that they don't make us go to the Air France counter --
he lets us pass.  Then the second security checker insists on going
through every single one of the fifty compartments in Vera's special day
travel bag.  What did they see in the radar machine that made it so
suspicious?  Or do they know we're already late?

We arrive at the gate, I'm all sweaty from carrying my two carry ons
plus Monika's ("It's too heavy for me, Dad").  There's only Air France
people there -- great, the flight must be empty?  Wrong, the flight's
full, they've released our seats, and there's nothing left together.
The agent confirms that the luggage won't make it.  I want to stay in
SFO and leave tomorrow.  So does Monika.  Vera wants to go now.  The
French agent hassles with us.  There's tears.  There's yelling.  At
least find two seats together, otherwise we won't go.  So the row we'd
planned on occupying is gone.  Vera and Monika get two seats together in
the middle section, I get a middle seat between two women several rows
behind my family.  Shit.  This isn't how it's supposed to be.  The lady
in the window seat turns out to work for Pacific Bell.  She talks to
herself and tries in vain to engage me in a conversation.  I'm pissed.
I don't want to talk to anyone.  She's worked with Scott
what's-his-name, the guy that does Dilbert.  She's in NCS.  What do I
do?  Have I been to Paris before?  5 weeks? That's great.  I must be
really happy.  Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.  Shut up, will you?  The
lady in the aisle seat is retired and going to Vienna.  Luckily, she's
quiet.  The flight drones on.  Vera keeps looking back at me.  She says
we can switch seats after a while.  After dinner I say.  Dinner is okay.
Better than on domestic flights.  The beer list sucks so I drink the
cabernet.  The Vienna lady drinks two bottles of white and later a
bottle of champagne.  The NCS lady drinks orange juice and fiddles with
her stuff incessantly -- arranging, rearranging, blowing up her pillow,
trying out the blinders, blah, blah, blah to herself now.  Sorry I'm
such a grump, I offer, but I'm not in a very good mood.  Maybe after
another bottle of wine or two.  People start to fall asleep -- it was
practically dark when we left SFO.  I can't switch seats now without
waking up the Vienna lady.  "Later," I mouth to Vera several rows up ahead
of me -- bulkhead row, even.  Suddenly, the retired Viennese gets up and
heads to the bathroom.  All of a sudden she falls down and is laying in
the aisle.  Attendants flock two or three deep from each end of the
aisle.  The lady rolls over on the floor and pukes underneath her seat.
This is great.  I'm feeling a lot better now.

There's a couple of movies.  I don't remember them at all.  The flight
attendants make everyone close the window shades.  They don't want
anyone to see the sunrise.  The clock creeps.  I switch seats
with Vera for a while, play hangman with Monika, she dozes off.  Bulk
head seats give you knee room, but no place to put your feet.  I really
don't care to remember much more about the flight.  This just wasn't the
way things were supposed to be.

Charles De Gaulle airport is one of the busiest airports in Europe.  The
two passport agents they have working there to admit the 322 people from
Air France flight 83 are very busy.  I decided that this was really a
feature designed to keep you from having to wait for your baggage to
come out on the conveyor belt.  We figured we should not take the
agent's word in SFO that our baggage didn't make it.  That means we have
to wait until no more baggage comes out at all.  There are other people
still waiting for their luggage, and the line for filing the report for
lost luggage is getting longer.  So I go off to file the report while
Monika and Vera watch, just in case.  The lost-luggage agent speaks
pretty good English, which is good, because I speak pretty lousy French.
She looks the bar code numbers up in the computer and can't find them.
Oh well, they should be on the same flight tomorrow and they should be
at the hotel tomorrow night.   Hotel Esmeralda, she asks?  She can't
find the hotel guide.  Do I know the phone number?  No, I don't.  But
Vera has it written down, with an address, too.  The lost-luggage agent
gives me a blue and a pink colored survival kit.  That was nice.  They
contain tooth paste, comb, brush, gender-specific lotions and colognes,
and Air France T shirt, and, of course, condoms.  This is Paris, isn't it?

It's 2pm local time.  It's 3am Portland time.  Monika's starting to fade
after the 10 hour, near sleepless, flight.

Since things hadn't gone the way we planned, we decided to treat 
ourselves to a taxi rather than messing with the RER (rapide
something-or-other that connects with le Metro).  There was no
line for getting a cab.  The oriental driver spoke virtually
no English.  Luckily Vera had studied in detail where the hidden
Hotel Esmeralda was.  So off we drove towards Notre Dame.  Monika
fell asleep part way to the hotel.  The driver, with Vera's help,
finally found the hotel tucked away in a myriad of one way
alleys, parks, and bridges. Yeah.  They even had our room ready.
Things were looking up.

The Esmeralda is, based on one's point of view, quaint and rustic, or
crummy.  Quaint and rustic are okay.  The old buildings and streets that
it's a part of make it quaint and rustic.  The location is fabulous.
And location, location, location -- is important.  I've heard that.  The
Notre Dame and Seine are just outside our windows.  A little park on the
other side of the cobblestone street (one car wide -- no parking) also
has an old church in it.  There's little restaurants (Brasseries) just
around the corner -- you can see and hear them.  Sidewalk tables and
chairs are everywhere to be seen.  Even the smallest kitchen has at
least one table and chair on the sidewalk.  A great location.  But, when
chair legs have no supporting memember, sofa seats hit the ground,
there's no soap holder in the shower, there's not even a shower holder
except for the person taking the shower, and the toilet is so close to
the wall that your knees and head hit when you sit on it, then I think
it's closer to crummy.

Did I mention that my glasses broke?  Did I mention that the phone in
the room doesn't have a removable cord so hooking the modem up is out of
the question?  Ah, who cares.  C'est la vie.  The weather is terrific --
feels like the 70s.  I haven't heard anything about Lewinsky for an
entire day.  And, I just got off the phone with my trusty friend and
neighbor, Chris, who is just on his way to work.  He'll stop by the
house and pick up the serial cable and the AC adapter and FedEx them in
the quickest way possible to the Esmeralda.  I figure, at best, they
should arrive Thursday.  We leave Paris Friday.  This is Tuesday.

Everyone takes a short nap, and we head off to explore the evirons
around the hotel, and a place to eat.  We are in Paris.  We're even gay.
(That's probably not what I should have said -- but you hear it all
the time about Pareee).

Wednesday, 9/23/98

After a less than great start, things are starting to settle into a fun
pace.  We are, after all in Paris.  The weather is great.  The location
of the hotel is unparalleled.  And, we're still getting long 
together even after such a horrible start.

Tonight we just returned from a typical French dinner -- it's just
before 10pm -- our second in this country.  Pino Pizza is just a short
walk around the corner from the hotel.  I'm sitting alone in the hotel
room while Vera and Monika walked across the Seine to take time
exposures of Notre Dame.  I would, too, but I can't blame my staying
here on forgetting my camera cables at home -- the digital camera
doesn't do time exposures -- a feature that my next digital must have.
...
Just got interrupted by Vera who came back to the hotel without Monika
to tell me that Monika is having her portrait painted in front of Notre
Dame under gaslit streetlights by the local painting talent.  Geez, I
give them money to go to the bookstore and what to they do?  Spend it on
a portrait.  It does look very good, however.  I walked over and took a
couple of pictures -- flash -- and watched the majority of the painting.
It's now 11pm, Vera went to the bookstore (Shakespeare's Books, just
round the corner, and legend has it that it's run by Walt Witman's
cousin or nephew).

Thursday, 9/24/98

We all seemed to have slept well again.  Pounding the pavement makes one
tired.  The plan was to enjoy a "petit dejuner" on one of the restaurant
boats in the Seine -- we saw the advertisement for 50F yesterday.  But,
the boats were closed.  So we found another "salon de the" breakfast
nearby.  Then, on to the Internet store to hook up the lap top and get
email in/out.  This was our second visit.  Those guys are quite
accomodating and reconginzed us right away.  We were in and out in just
a few minutes.  Bought some post cards and hiked along the river to find
the Lyon train station.  There we validated the Eurorail passes and got
5 different answers and 3 different prices for the train reservations to
Holland.  The was actually pretty stressful, especially when Vera had to
literally push away local kids while she was at the ATM machine -- we're
pretty sure she lost a 100F to one of the brats.

We took the Metro the the Louvre -- a huge expanse of interconnected,
palatial rooms and buildings.  It really is quite impressive, but there
were lots of folks besides us there.  Saw the medieval castle, many
naked stone people, La Jaconde, and very dark paintings bigger than a
typical 3 bedroom split-level house in Beaverton showing battle scenes
between guys with metal helmets, leather straps, big swords, and no
other uniforms to speak of (or to see).  I don't know how they
differentiated the two sides apart, by the strap placement?  Of note
should be the security guy at the escalator who pulled me aside and
inspected the folding walking stick tied to my backpack.  I don't know
what he thought it was, but he took it out and puzzled over it a bit,
then gave it back without saying anything verbally.  He had a quizzical
look on him though.  Les americains!

One can spend days in there.  But we didn't want to.  So after a brief
visit to the Louve bookstore where you can buy explanations about all
the stuff you saw (and didn't see) in the museum in any language in the
modern world (we didn't buy anything), we left and found a place to have
bite to eat (in Monika's case, a sip to drink), and then across famous
Pont Neuf (don't know where Pont Huit or Pont Dix are).  The Louvre is
actually within walking distance of the Esmeralda.  So we hoofed it
back, stopping along the way to visit Sainte Chapelle, named after the
patron saint of broken cameras, but not before we quickly dropped into
the first Grand Magasin that we've seen here to buy a hair dryer (the
converter would have worked, except the 110 plug on our dryer had the
different sized prongs, while the converter didn't).  Ste.
Chapelle is a relatively small cathedral compared to Notre Dame.
It costs admission and is located in the middle of the huge Palace of
Justice.  We had to go through scanners like at the airport just to get
in.  It was crowded, very warm, there was lots of stained glass (really
mostly painted glass -- but a lot of it), and very disappointing when the
Sainte made Vera's camera stop working.  We also did a slight detour
through the "flower market", a misnomer for a plant market, and finally
across the Pont St.  Michel to the hotel.  Vera spotted a camera store
in one direction, so we split up, with Monika and me going to the hotel,
Vera to the camera shop.  It was good to take our shoes off -- only one
new blister for me -- an stretch out on the bed.

Vera came back in a while, eyes red, with a camera that no one would
even look at.  She visited three different shops and they told her it
would take a month to have it repaired.  Aaaaaacck!  What next.  We
started off with three, functioning cameras.  Vera's was now out of
commission, and mine had 18 pictures left to take before it's full.
Decision time.  A no-brainer, really.  You're not going to travel for
weeks in Europe with just a post card collection to show for it.  Monika
didn't want to share her camera with us every place we went.  Good ol'
Visa to the rescue.  Don't leave home without it.  I went out and bought
a nice little Minolta, 140mm zoom, auto everything for 1985F.  That's
not a good cost deal, but considering I found it, got the demo,
extra batteries, and hey, a free carrying case, and was back in the
hotel in less than 30 minutes -- I'd say that was a bargain.  And, when
I stopped at the front desk to ask if I could have a second room key,
there was the FedEx box with my digital camera cables!  Hooray!  So
we're a fully, photo-functional family again.  Well, almost.  Vera still
needs to read the instruction book tonight.

So, while I'm updating all this, Vera and Monika went across to the park
to sketch and write.  They look very parisienne, sitting there on the
park bench, Monika with her new beret, journals and sketch books out --
tres artsie, tres apropos.

Dinner today was at Le Royal Jussieu, the royal juicer or something like
that.  We had steak with salad and Monika had steak with fries.  In
France, the first part of the menu item is the part that appears the least
on your plate.  The second part of the menu item appears the most.  The
food was good. Chewy, but good.  All day long we had been talking about
taking le Batobus along the Seine (get it, bateau + bus) to see the La
Tour Eiffel all lit up at night.  Le Batobus ran every hour until 2300.
We were still in the restaurant at 2045 paying the check.  Vera was
convinced we wouldn't make it in time.  But we did.  It included a 200
meter run for me from le Batobus dock to the le Ticket Booth and back --
but we made it.  Unlike our expectations, le Batobus did not make
several stops like advertised -- but sailed to the Eiffel tower and then
returned -- which was fine for us since that way we didn't have to
find the right Metro to get back to the hotel.  It did, however, limit
the number of night pictures we took from the moving Batobus.

Vera crashed as soon as we got back to hotel.  Monika and I went around
the corner to Shakespeare's cousin's bookstore.  I bought a slightly
thicker French/English dictionary than Vera's slimmer version, and it
still doesn't have the words like Jussieu in it.  But for 10F it was
a bargain.  And Walt Whitman's nephew put the official book stamp in it.

I finally got to download the first 100 pictures tonight.
Unfortunately, my script program to generate the html files requires
awk, and awk craps out after 10 open files.  So clever me converted the
awk script to perl, which craps out after just 16 files.  Better, but
not nearly good enough.  Stupid PC.  It's too late to work around that
problem, so Monika and I just looked at the pictures one by one rather
than with my preferred viewer.  I still have to flip many pictures 90
degrees -- too bad the dowloader doesn't sense that.  So all of the tall
pictures -- and there are a lot -- we looked at sideways for now.  But,
it means that soon I'll be able to put something on the net.  Yeah.  And
more importantly, I can clear out the camera and start over.

to be continued.....
