From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Tour 1998 -- part 8
Date: Sun, 4 Oct 1998 16:48:12 EDT

Dear Family and Friends,

We've completed September and are already into October.  Time is flying
by.  Before we'll know it this trip will be over.  Here's the latest
installment
from my journal.

Cheers,
Rainer

Thursday, 10/1

We started the morning with a breakfast at the Big Bell -- Dutch pancakes.
There's a discrepancy between what we know as raisins in English and
what the Dutch call raisins.  They really mean grapes. So the Dutch
pancakes with apples and raisins were a surprise.  They were good, in
any case.

Today we had planned to find Vera's mother's grave.  We picked up her
Aunt and she showed us the way to the cemetery.  After double checking
with the grounds keeper on the exact location of the grave number,
we walked under the chestnut trees of the Oak and Dunes cemetery to
find grave 2857.  The inscription of the grave stone was readable
even though part of the stone was covered with sand, moss, and leaves.
I used the trusty Oregon windshield scraper (my Costco card) to 
remove the moss and sand from the stone.  Monika brought over a
watering can and we rinsed the sand from the incised lettering.
Vera left a nice bouquet of flowers on the stone, we took some
pictures, and left.  It was a somber time, but of keen interest to
Vera who'd never seen the spot before.  He mother died in 1952
and with this visit, some sort of closure was reached.

We dropped Aunt Katy off at her apartment, said our final good byes,
and headed for Scheveningen Harbor.  Not much going on there. I'm
not sure that we found the touristy part of the harbor.  We walked
around a while, my foot with the double blister hurting a bit more
than I would have wanted it to.  We didn't find any shops of herring
booths, so we headed back to the hotel after deciding where we would
have lunch later.  

Monika fell asleep almost instantly.  Vera rummaged around in the room
preparing for the package of accumulated new stuff and broken stuff we
were planning to mail back to Portland.  We woke a sleepy Monika after
and hour and headed for Veronica's on the beach.

There's a whole series of restaurants that build semi-permanent sites
on the sand next to the promenade.  They take down after the first
week of October.  Several of the restaurants had already been
disassembled. Veronica, featuring an Italian ice cream menu, was
only going to exist for another couple of days.  Our order of patats
frites, ham sandwich, Heineken, sprite and coffee came up quickly
since we were the only customers.  The ice cream/fruit sundae
was a nice finish.

Next we drove down town to The Hague, to the central train station close
to where we arrived on Monday.  We were going to finalize our reservation
for Saturday's trip to Berlin.  Plans change.  Turns out that the
Dutch railway system is undergoing some major constructional changes.
They do this on the weekends.  The only way to get to Berlin on Saturday
would be to take 4 different trains to the Dutch border, and then
catch the main train to Berlin.  2 of the 4 connections involved 
transfer times of only 3 minutes.  The alternative was to go to Amsterdam,
then take a bus to the border (for which there was no schedule at
the station) and then catch the train to Berlin.  Or, if we left on a
weekday, we would only have to make a single transfer that had a 25
minute window.  Vera wanted to take the Friday train.  But what about
the birding in the dunes?  And what about mailing the package?  Time
out.

I had a brief recollection of the scene at SFO airport with Air France.
I also remembered the quick decision to have the laundry done rather
than to do it ourselves, leaving Monika without long pants for the day.
This wasn't the way it was supposed to be.  We gave up our position
at the international counter (you pick numbers and sit in a waiting
area for your number to be called) and decided to think and talk things
over before making a split second decision.  Vera already had taken
the next number ticket from the machine.  Three more number tickets
would be taken and called and ignored while we figured out what the
best thing to do was.  My original plan was to have this be a flexible
trip -- stress free if possible -- and not tied to a schedule.  We
liked our hotel.  We liked the places to eat.  Why give up stuff we
still wanted to do for a silly train schedule?  We agreed to stay
until Monday, and just relax. 

We'll need to notify my cousin in Berlin that we arrive two days later.
We'll need to check with the hotel and the car rental place.  But,
the pace immediately slowed down.  It felt good not to have the pressure
anymore to hurry up and get things done by tomorrow morning.  Perhaps
we'll rent some bikes and ride the paths through the dunes.  We still
are going to see Madurodam and do some more serious bird watching
(rather than catch an occasional species in the city parks).  Okay,
that was done.  It was also a lot cheaper, 6 guilders each, to ride
to Berlin than the 130 Francs to ride from Paris.  Turns out the
Thalys train from Paris is the reason for the cost difference.  It must
also go faster.  We'll see.

We floundered around downtown trying to find the "traditional shopping"
district.  We did find a shopping area of sorts, but it's more like
a Washington square on old narrow streets -- not the kind of stuff
tourists want to look at.  We ended up at the Binnenhof, a large
government complex with a very big pond.  We watched a woman stop
her bike and pull out her uneaten sandwich from lunch and start to
feed the birds.  The pigeons and gulls got the bread.  When a 
Grey Heron flew over, she fed him the meat.  Out on the pond Monika
spotted a large grebe.  We had a hard time deciding which of the two
large grebes it was.  Then, after all three of us taking looks at
it through the binos, we agreed that it was the Great Crested Grebe,
a new one for all of us.

Back to the hotel to dump our stuff, finish the partial bottle of
wine from yesterday, and headed for a quick dinner at New York Pizza
again.  After dinner we strolled down the promenade and walked out
the famous pier at Scheveningen.  We climbed the tower at the end
of the pier and I tried my luck at taking a panorama shot of the
hotels and restaurants on the strand.

Tomorrow awaits.  We'll need to find out what happens with the
street parking, take care of the changed travel plans, and hope
for no rain for the birding trip.
