From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Tour 1998 -- part 4
Date: Sun, 4 Oct 1998 16:47:49 EDT

Dear Family and Friends ,

Here is part 4.

Cheers,
Rainer

Sunday, 9/27

We awoke to the sound of the first church bells on Mont St.  Michel.
The clear starry night had given way to clouds again.  It had rained
overnight and you could still hear the drops falling from the roof tops.
I got dressed before anyone else today and walked (actually, I climbed,
since you can't walk on Mont St.  Michel -- it's all stairs) around a
bit to take some pictures before the masses started showing up.  From
above I could see that the parking lot already had 3 tour busses
unloaded.  Several more were coming toward the island down the causeway.

This place is quite undescribable.  The steepness of the Mont and the
height of the stone constructions are, to me, mind boggling.  All of the
old stone buildings are amazing, but this one, built before the
causeway, must have been a agonizing engineering feat.  How to get rocks
and timbers and tools and whatnot across the mud flats during low tide
on a project that must have taken hundreds of years is to me
unfathomable.  The dedication and planning that went into building a
Notre Dame, a Mont St.  Michel, or a Chartres is something that no one
today can really understand.  All of our projects are measured in days,
weeks, or months.  Really long project may take years.  But who do you
know that is working on a project he'll never see the end of because it
takes generations to complete?  When I see the details of just a single
rock -- large rock, but still a single one -- and figure how long it
would take me to decorate this rock with the stuff at my disposal today
from my workshop, I wouldn't know how to do it or how long it would
take.  And all of this rock construction was done before power tools and
hydraulics and electricity was available.  That just blows me away.
That is what makes looking at old stone buildings so impressive.

Mont St.  Michel, and La Mere Poulard hotel/restaurant where we stayed
are known for omelettes.  Monika had a craving for scrambled eggs today
(something familiar from home).  What does one use to make omelettes?
Wouldn't you think that some of those eggs could be turned into
scrambled eggs?  What is an omelette anyway?  Well, here you see the
impact of commercialism.  Service over most of the Mont was unfriendly
and curt.  Everyone was too busy to really enjoy their jobs and hence to
provide a satisfactory service to their customers.  This holds true to
the ticket clerk in the Abbey, to the people in the hotel at the
bar/restaurant/reception that couldn't provide a bottle of wine to take
to the room, to the waiter last night at dinner who foisted a
high-priced wine on us, to the waiter/cook this morning who wouldn't
think of making scrambled eggs, to the waiter in the creperie we
eventually did eat at who looked, after his first three customers, like
he was already having a bad day.  What a contrast to the people of La
Bouille where every contact was a pleasant one, where people seemed to
care about your stay, where people explained things you asked about,
where people tried to help solve your problems.

It's so sad to see the effect commercialism has on this place.  It's
called "La Merveillieux", the marvel.  It has a positive meaning.  The
marvel, to me, is quite sad rather than wondrous.  This is one of
places that I really wanted to see.  It's awesome.  But it's also
disappointing.  Cheap plastic cameras for kids showing Mont St.  Michel
when you look through the view finder, swords from King Arthur,
personalized cups and bowls, T-shirts with dragons float like the tidal
scum around the base of Mont St.  Michel.  The Mont, however, rises high
above this crap and stands, timeless, by itself above the surrounding
tidal flats.  The tide may rise higher one day and rinse away the
detritus that has been accumulated at the base of the Mont.  My pictures
show both.  I hope you can see from them the magnificence that Mont St.
Michel held for me and the saddening pall that people bring to this
place.

We packed up and left by noon.  On our way back to the car we couldn't
help but look back and take in once more the marvel that this place is.
We also saw the lesser black backed gull standing in the sand and flying
around.

The return to Paris was via a different path, taking us through Rennes and
Le Mans.  The traffic was nonexistent this morning.  The rain had given
way to sun and it was very beautiful in the Normandy countryside.  The
little villages with empty streets on an early Sunday afternoon reminded
me of war movies sets -- the narrow streets, the stone farm houses.

We got lost driving into Rennes.  We never did find the signs that took
you around it.  A very nice lady in a car next to us at a stop light
told us to head toward Cesson.  That worked fine, and we found our way
out of town.  Another curious thing about French traffic signs, there'll
be one or two main names indicated at the traffic circles.  There will
then also be a sign that says "Autre directions", other directions.
Some times we even found a sign that read "Toutes directions", all
directions.  That's how we ended up in Rennes.  Our direction never
appeared on a sign so we always followed the "other directions" arrow.

Once we hit the freeway (watch out for the peage signs, you need to pay
toll) we drove a lot faster.  Speed limit is 130, but we were probably
the only ones to drive that.  Traffic picked up after Le Mans.  We
stopped at a rest area (Aire du some-place-name) and bought a some
cookies and cafe.  If you like coffee, you'll like France.  However, they
never serve you a second tasse without charging you, and mostly the
coffee isn't as hot as I'd like it to be.

We stopped at a place only a few kilometers off the freeway, something
du Bernard.  It was billed as the West's own Venice with houses along
canals supported on stilts.  We found a quaint little village but no
signs of canals or stilts.  We did spot the wood pigeon for the first of
what would be many times.  After a 5F pain du chocolat from le Boulanger
we had cleared the driving haze from our heads and headed down the road
toward Paris.

In an attempt to do mid-vacation correctional maneuvers, we had revised
our plans to visit all the places that we'd picked out while still at
home when we drew out the trip on the map.  This was the feedback effect
from the drive leaving Paris.  However, when we were just a few 100
meters from the Chartres exit, I turned to Vera and asked if she was
sure she didn't want to stop and see the cathedral.  We quick checked
the map and decided to take the exit.  Chartres, the cathedral, is quite
impressive.  Notre Dame, however, still ranks higher on my scale of
impressive buildings.

We toyed with the idea of getting a hotel here and then driving into
Paris early in the morning to catch the train to Holland.  But, quickly
changed our minds and headed back on the freeway to where we didn't
exactly know.

It started to drizzle again.  Then to rain.  It was getting darker.
Then we came upon the last toll booth.  This must be the mother of all
toll booths.  Two freeways come together here and all 12 lanes all of
sudden open up in a huge funnel to accommodate 40 booths!  It's an
amazing spectacle to see all of the cars and trucks and busses and
motorcycles driving criss-cross to get into the shortest line.  What's
just as amazing, after you've paid, is the rechanneling of all this
traffic from wide lanes into 4 lanes going in one direction.  Then we
hit the traffic jam.

Lots of people left Paris for the weekend, and they all came back the
same moment we did.  We were at a stand still on the freeway and much
further away from where we wanted to be the next morning.  The clock was
ticking away as we crawled along for miles.  As a knee jerk reaction I
pulled off one exit from which I could see a large Holiday Inn.  We
ended up driving through a shopping center parking lot and parking
structure, up the wrong way of a one-way street, just to get to the
entrance to the hotel.  They had a room, spacious compared to what we've
been staying in.  They had a pool.  They had a modem connection.  They
had a minibar.  A Pizza Pino restaurant (the French equivalent to our
Chevy's) was next to the hotel.  We had escaped the traffic and enjoyed
the rest of the evening.  And so ended Sunday.  We even remembered to
get the AOL access number for The Hague before we signed off.  This was
the first time were able to access email from the hotel!
