From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Trip 1998 -- part 16
Date: Wed, 14 Oct 1998 04:31:43 EDT

Friday, 10/9 -- part 16

It was raining again this morning; really more of a drizzle.  Vera and I
got up somewhat early to go walking around the neighborhood in
Bohnsdorf.  I didn't recognize anything except the woods at the end of
the street.  I knew they were there, and they still were.  But, the
train and the main highway that criss-crossed the woods were all new.
We found a trail that led into the forest and followed it for a while.
It's a mixed deciduous/conifer forest.  I took my binoculars along in
case a bird might be found, but nothing turned up.  After about 20
minutes we stopped, you could hear the highway, train, and airport
noises all around you from within the forest, and we turned around.

We wanted to send postcards and all of the brochures and Pasewalk info
back to the States and had been on the lookout for a post office.  Vera,
on one of her earlier walks during the week, had spotted what she
described as a "posterei" with a mailbox across the street.  I'd never
heard of that term.  Maybe it was a small post office.  Thomas didn't
know about it either.  Since it was just around the corner from the
little house in Bohnsdorf, we walked past it on the way back.  The sign
really read "polsterei", meaning "upholsterer."  We laughed about that
for a while, and filed away in our list of insignificant but cute
stories that make memories later.

Today was going to be "nature" day rather than "city" or "history" day.
We were going to go start in Koepenik with a boat tour on some of the
many rivers and lakes that surround Berlin.  Thomas was going to pick us
up, but I was convinced that we could find the place, especially since
it was relatively (10 minutes?) close to where we already were.  It took
30 minutes to navigate the short distance -- most of the time being
stuck in a one-lane detour due to the ever present road construction in
former East Berlin.  I did remember the GPS this time (so the way back
would be easier).  We made it to the Rathaus in time.

The Rathaus in Koepenik is famous for the story about the Hauptman from
Koepenik.  The story, which has become a move and a play, takes place in
the early 1900s and deals with a shoemaker who, unable to get papers to
travel, gets himself a uniform and hires some scraggly soldiers and
takes over city hall (the Rathaus) after he finds out there's not even
an agency in city hall that could issue him the travel papers.  He
throws out the mayor, appropriates the city's funds, and although taken
quite seriously by the citizens of Koepenik, cause quite a humorous
uproar abroad when the story got out.  There's a bronze statue of the
Hauptman in front of the Rathaus.  We stood next to him while we waited.
Two weddings also took place while we waited.

The Rathaus is just across the street from the cruise boat dock.  There
was no boat, however.  Thomas and Hanelore showed up shortly before the
boat was supposed to leave.  Apparently the direction they'd come had
even worse construction delays.  Close to departure time we called the
number from the dock only to find out that the boat was not leaving
after all.  Thomas said that this was typical "Eastern" behavior.  We
didn't want to wait for the 3 hour cruise later and agree to go the the
Mueggleturm -- a tower on a forested hill nearby.

We stopped at temporary (under construction, what else) post office
along the way, stood in line to get stamps and mail a package, and then
had to stand in line again to mail the postcards.  There's no mailbox in
the post office!  The clerk behind the window mails them.

Just a little bit further we parked the cars and walked through the
groomed forests surrounding Berlin.  Thomas showed us traces of wild pigs
along the paths.  He said that they are so numerous here that they've
become a pest.  We kept our eyes and ears open, but found no other sign
of one.  Bird life was pretty absent, too.  The path led to a long
series of stairs that led to the Mueggleturm or Mueggle tower.  Thomas
bought tickets and we all climbed the 9 levels of 14 steps each to the
top.  The view was very nice from up there.  We think we may even have
seen the tour boat on the 3-hour cruise.  We saw several of tits,
chickadees in our minds.  The Great Tit and the Blue Tit were pretty
easy to identify because of their yellow and blue coloring.  The other
ones were tougher.  I'm still not sure whether it was a Willow or a
Marsh Tit.

We walked back to the car and beyond to the Ruebezahl restaurant on the
edge of the Muegglesee (lake).  Some of us had a late lunch while some
of us had dessert.  We were going to meet for dinner at 1830 so we
parted ways.

The GPS worked like a charm in helping us get back to Bohnsdorf without
a wrong turn.  I wasn't going to forget it anymore.  The drive into
Berlin for dinner was uneventful.  We'd left ourselves plenty of time,
even allowing for several wrong turns.  The GPS tracked our progress
away from Bohnsdorf, ensuring we'd not have the problems navigating at
night like we did the first time.  However, we still had never yet
completed a successful trip to Thomas' apartment.  This time was to be no
different.  Later inspection of the GPS traced route proved to be quite
amusing.  We arrived on time, but I had to drop Vera and Monika off at
the apartment and continue cruising the streets on this Friday evening
since there were no parking spots to be found.  I was concerned about
going too far away from the apartment because I might not find it (or if
I did, I might not find the car later).  So, I kept looping past the
apartment in my ever-widening search circles.  Thomas, Vera, and Monika
appeared in the street on one of my passes and got in the car.  We drove
towards the restaurant, Landauer's, which was really just short walk
away, and parked the car along a street close to the restaurant than to
the apartment.  So why have a car in Berlin if you can't park it?
Thomas is fortunate enough to have secured a parking space under his
apartment building.

Dinner at Landauer's was quite good, which is good, since it was our
treat.  Steffie, Thomas' younger daughter, and Tommy, her husband for
just a few months, also joined us.  The menu was quite large and it took
a while for me to explain what stuff was as Vera and Monika pointed
things out asking, "What's this?  What's that?"  We ordered, they men
all drinking Schwarzbier, the women Rotwein, and Monika the
by-now-standard Sprite.  Bread was accompanied with schmalz rather than
butter.  Schmalz is really congealed bacon drippings.  You spread it on
the bread like butter and apply liberal doses of salt.  Sounds strange,
I know, but it's actually quite good.  Dinner itself was good, too.
And there was enough of it.  Conversation was limited, reminiscent of
the visit in Hollad -- when everybody doesn't speak the same language
it really does make a difference.

After dinner we returned to the apartment, gave Steffie and Tommy their
late wedding present, had another bier and wein, and headed back "home".
Tommy was going to show me where we'd parked the car and point me in the
direction to get to the inner city autobahn.  Once there, the GPS took
us all the way back without incident.  Yay.  Turns out the Steffie and
Tommy, driving a new Eurovan VW bus, practically drove the same way back
that we did.  When they took a short cut, I followed the GPS.  We ended
up again right next to each other 30 minutes later.  Not sure if it was
really a shortcut.

Thomas had asked me to call him when we got to Bohnsdorf.  He was
getting a bit concerned, I think, about the number of times we got lost.
It does seem like a lot of times.  And it was.  But, man, until you've
driven here with the maps available, don't criticize.  Maps are funny
here.  Streets are drawn wide enough to have names printed between the
borders of the street.  Few streets run in any regular grids like newer
cities.  And, besides streets, buildings and parks and their names and
bus stops and subway stops and a jillion other things all make their
appearance on the maps making them very unreadable.  Anyway, I called
when we got back, and he was surprised by the time we'd made.  Hooray
GPS.  It also helped that traffic wasn't at a standstill.

There was a message to call my Dad.  I did, and got the bad news that
things were not going well with the Mother.  She was back in the
hospital after the great recovery she'd managed from her recent surgery.
I called her at the hospital, too.  We talked for a while about
Bohnsdorf and the trip and I had the feeling that I may have cheered her
up.  But it wasn't good news.  I didn't write much in the journal that night.
