From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Trip 1998 -- part 32
Date: Tue, 27 Oct 1998 02:16:16 EST

Sunday, 10/25 -- part 32

I wake up early at 0500 even with the change back to standard time.  I
set to work to catch up on the journal again and send out two more --
but I'm still behind.  The rain from last night is gone.  Blue,
cloudless sky greets us for our last full vacation day in Paris.  For
breakfast we all enjoy good scrambled eggs again.

This morning we set out on a walk to Montmartre and the Sacre Coeur
Cathedral which are both very close to the hotel.  Sacre Coeur is just
swarming with people.  As we stand at the bottom of the hill near the
funiculaire, several of the black street vendors come running out of the
park.  In an instant there are lots of people racing out away from the
church.  Police are chasing them.  One of them crashes into Monika with
his goods wrapped in a big sheet.  We're stunned by what's going and
just stand there and watch.  It's over before we realized what happened.
The police chase someone down the crowded streets.  Lots of people are
pointing in the direction for the police to go.  We never did find out
what happened.  What a strange way to start the day.

Around the corner, in front of the funiculaire, a man and woman with
silver painted faces and funny robes pose as a pair of statues, the
woman seated before the man.  In front of them is a little sack into
which people drop coins.  When a coin drops, the two statues come to
life for a few moments and blow bubbles that the wind quickly carries
away.  They look in the direction of the person who dropped the coin and
then quickly become statues again.

There are too many people waiting to get on the funiculaire so we walk
back to the steps, still not understanding where the mob of people came
from.  There's a three-piece band from the Andes performing on the steps
higher up.  They are drawing quite a crowd, but that's not enough to
explain it.  Near the top, we sit on a bench.  An old man carrying a
package and an umbrella walks by us and sits on the next bench, all the
while talking quite loudly to himself.  He fiddles with his package and
gets up and moves on.  Around the side of the church are more "statues",
a woman in all white sitting on a column, a wind-up wooden puppet, and a
Charlie Chaplin type.  We stop and watch all of them.  It's too crowded
to even attempt to go into the church.  The Mont St.  Michel evening
abbey tour comes to mind.  Monika and I stay and listen to the Andean
music a bit while Vera gives it a try.  She soon returns.

We wander around the corner to Montmartre proper, and the crowd just
gets worse, or maybe just seems to because the open areas are much
smaller than around Sacre Coeur.  I don't believe my eyes when I see
motor vehicles trying to drive through the streets which are totally
filled with people.  There's even a tourist "train" consisting of at
least 5 or 6 cars that is at a total standstill trying to navigate
through the crowd.  What a mess.

There are artists everywhere.  Many hold just a large clip board and try
to tempt you into having your face sketched in varying media.  One even
uses scissors and paper to cut your silhouette.  The area is very
scenic, if you've never been there.  The paintings on display are mostly
of the area itself.  But, today, with all the mobs, you can't see the
place at all.  None of the paintings show very many people.

We finally leave and head back to the hotel via a different route,
stopping at a bakery for some goodies to take to the room.  I wait
outside the bakery which is also very crowded.  I'm amused by a woman
that comes with her dog off leash and goes inside telling the dog to
wait.  He sniffs around and scurries back and forth checking out each
client that emerges from the bakery.  He follows them a few feet and
after determining that it's not his master returns to the glass door to
wait some more.

Back at the hotel I reconfirm the flight tomorrow with Air France.  I
will not put up with the crap we went through on the way over.  I toy
with the idea of a business class upgrade and choke when the woman on
the phone tells me it would be 6000 and something.  I ask her if this is
in French Franks.  No, she replies, it's in dollars.  Dollars per
person.  Can you believe that?  That would be more than the entire 5
week trip!  Anyway, the flight is still going on time.  We're supposed
to be there 2 hours early.  Not having been in touch with any sort of
news who knows what may be going on in the world.  Air France pilots
could have been on strike or something.  But there I go worrying again.

We while away an hour or two in the hotel before setting out to take the
Metro to the Bateaubus again.  It was such a hit 5 weeks ago that we
want to take it again but during the day.  I forgot to mention that soon
after we got to the hotel for our break, it started to dump rain.  The
sun was shining now and it seemed like a good time to leave again.

We navigate the 2 or 3 trains to the St.  Michel exit.  As we leave the
Metro it's raining again.  By the time we walk to the Bateaubus along
the Seine the sun is shining again.  Quite a few people have bought
tickets.  We decide to ride topside rather than inside.  However, all of
the bucket seats are filled with water from the recent downpour.  People
anxiously getting to the topside are perplexed with what to do.  Many
women dig in their purses and pull out kleenex to swap up the water.
There are little drain holes in the seats, but they are not centered
well, and each seat has this little pool of water in it.  I decide to
stand in the back, getting a stand-up view over all the heads of
everyone else.  It's not until the cruise is underway that one of the
crewmen comes up with a mop and sops up the water.

I end up taking a lot of pictures again.  This time the different bridge
styles catch my eye.  No two appear to be the same and I capture many of
them digitally.  It's quite chilly and most of the people that started
on top end up downstairs and inside.

After the boat ride we try to warm up in a Salon du The across the
street.  The small cafe insists on keeping the front door open and you
can't get in far enough to really get warm.  The coffee, tea, and hot
chocolate help a little, though.  We walk back to the Metro passing the
Esmaralda and Walt Whitman's book store again.  Since the English/French
dictionary I bought there was such a success, I thought it would be nice
to collect the set that I remembered there.  Of course, they were all
gone by now.

We navigate the Metro to Place de la Concorde.  It's now dark but still
early due to the clock change last night.  We take the requisite series
of pictures of the fountain, the traffic on the Champs Elysees and the
Arc de Triomphe in the distance.  La Tour Eiffel is also lit up by now
and clearly visible against the horizon.  We can see another storm cell
moving towards us.  We set off walking upt the Champs Elysees hoping to
find a nice place to eat.  The rain starts but we're prepared with
raingear and umbrellas.   The main part of the storm cell is towards the
Eiffel Tower.  We find an ATM machine and then proceed to check out
several restaurants.  They all are very busy.  We try going down a side
street and find the same thing.  We finally end up at the Planet
Hollywood Paris.  Everyone agrees that this is somehow right.  We've
been talking more and more about what foods we've missed and how good it
will be to eat American food again.  Our waiter turns out to be from
Belfast.  The menu has all the dishes titled in English with
explanations in French.  We can read everything.  Vera settles on the
fajitas, Monika on a steak with fries, me on baby back ribs.  Dinner is
delicious.  They even have Becks dark; not great but better than most
beer on the trip.  We have a great time together and agree that the
large bill we've run up was worth it.  Monika gets the first and only
T-shirt that anyone's bought on this trip.  Guess of what?

We head up the rest of the Champs Elysees to the Arc de Triomphe, then
take the Metro to the Eiffel Tower.  The night time pictures we got last
time were only from the boat -- not to stable a base.  We walk a bunch
more and see the tower in it's lit up splendor which is really very
pretty.

By now it's after 2200.  Vera's fading fast and we still have to metro
back to the hotel.  She crashes almost as soon as we get to the room
while Monika and I stay up until after midnight doing our stuff.

For a day where there was nothing really planned, we covered a lot of
ground and had a wonderful time.  It seems appropriate that we end the
vacation where we started it -- in Paris.  I've reassembled all of the
digital photos into a single folder.  There are over a thousand.
Scrolling through the thumbnail images of them let one glimpse five
weeks of excitement, mishaps, and joy.  We've seen so much and done so
much in that time.  Each of us has chronicled this trip in their own
way.  We will each remember things differently, but we will remember
many of the same things.  The journals that we've all written will help
to recall those seemingly insignificant details that are the threads
from which the fabric of our memories are woven.  We've talked a lot
about how we all remember the trip and how we will be talking about it
for the rest of our lives.  We can envision sitting around after dinner
someday, years from now, asking each other "Do you remember when ...?"
And we will remember.  There aren't a lot of artifacts or trinkets that
we're bringing back -- some coins, some pins, some stamps.  Mostly we
bring back our pictures and our written commentary of the days that
we've spent together.
