From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Trip 1998 -- part 18
Date: Wed, 14 Oct 1998 04:31:56 EDT

Sunday, 10/11 -- part 18

Sunday brunch at the Holiday Inn was very complete.  It was also very
crowded.  We all got to eat pretty much what we wanted to eat.  Monika
was content staying in the hotel while Vera and I took a cab back to the
train station of pick up the rental car.  It was sunny this morning
which surprised us all.  And, you could see the Alps along the horizon!

The view from the hotel and the street seemed very familiar.  I figured
out that during one of my infrequent business trips when I still worked
for the Case division of Tek or Mentor had taken me here once before.

Having learned my lessons in Berlin, I reset the GPS, marked a waypoint
for the hotel and kept the thing turned on during the taxi ride back to
the train station.  It turned out to be unnecessary -- Munich is a lot
easier to navigate and drive in than Berlin.  But better safe than
sorry.

We rented another Fiat Punto which was going to be dropped off in Italy.
It was dark blue, like the Polo in Berlin.  During hours 5 through 7 of
yesterday's train ride, all of us had experienced some sort of
discomfort from the train travel.  We wanted to break up the last long
train trip from Milano to Paris into two segments.  So we stopped at the
reservation counter and were booked the stretch from Lyon to Paris -- a
high speed train taking only 2 hours.  We would have to wait with making
reservations from Torino to Lyon until we were in Italy.  We decided to
leave from Torino rather than Milano since there was no difference in
the car drop off charges and it would shorten the first train trip to
about 4 hours.  The sun disappeared as the clouds moved in.

Back in the hotel no one was hungry for lunch since we had such a big
breakfast.  We decided to head to the Marienplatz and do some tourist
shopping.  All of the stores are closed on Sundays -- something that is
still hard to get used to coming from the U.S.  We walked around and
found a bunch of shops that we wanted to visit before we left.  An
unexpected good find was the climb up Den Alter Peter, a church built in
the 1200s.  The view was fantastic -- all the red tile roofs everywhere.

Monika and Vera had a little lunch at a pastry shop, Konditerei, on our
afternoon drive to Dachau.  The site of the first Nazi concentration
camp is now a memorial to the many that perished here.  Dachau is only
about 15 miles from the hotel.  It's not a highlight of a vacation, but
it's a part of history that, as a saying on one of the memorials states,
should serve to honor those that died and serve as a caution to those
that are alive.  The weather had turned very grey in the late afternoon.
A light rain was starting to fall.  It made the visit seem all the more
solemn.  It's mind boggling to know what happened here.  There's a sense
of shame that I feel that such inhumanity could have happened.  I don't
know whether that's because I'm German or because I'm human.

The GPS make navigating back to the hotel almost like following another
car that knew the way.  Until, that is, there was no off ramp to the
middle ring around Munich where we had joined it from an on ramp.  We
were close enough that the Vera and the map guided us back without
mishap.  We stopped at the Pizza Hut Express this time to get a pizza to
go.  Monika was happy to stay in the hotel alone some more with the
pizza and the laptop.  Vera and I head off to the Ratskeller for a
dinner alone.  The Ratskeller is right on the Marienplatz which we knew
how to find now.  We found a parking spot closer that this afternoon's
and remembered the way through the passages that let pedestrians shortcut
through city block between buildings -- something cars can't do.

The Ratskeller is huge.  Our dinner of potato soup and Nuernberger
sausages with fried potatoes and sauerkraut was pretty good, even if the
waiter was a bit ditzy.  It was good to be just the two of us, talking,
watching the people, and enjoying a good meal.  We stopped to listen to
some street entertainers on the way back to the car.  To our surprise,
the passage had had one end closed by a gate.  We retraced out steps
hoping that the other end of the passage wouldn't be locked by the time
we got there.  It wasn't.

Monika had done pretty good damage to the pizza and was playing a couple
of winning rounds of solitaire on the computer.  We settled down on our
respective surfaces.  I made sure there was no beer left in the minibar.
There wasn't.
