From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Trip 1998 -- part 25
Date: Sun, 25 Oct 1998 19:38:29 EST

Sunday, 10/18 -- part 25

I have to  marvel at the timing of things.  The only really bad weather
we've had on this trip has been on days when we've had to train or
drive.  Yesterday's beautiful weather gave way to rain this morning.
The clouds that the hikers ascending the Schilthorn saw were indeed "the
weather moving in."

Breakfast was much better at the Bernerhof, a place we found while
walking around last night after dinner that advertised a decent
breakfast menu.  The lady at our hotel doesn't know squat about what's
in Interlaken when she said you couldn't get anything but a continental
breakfast here.  Omelettes, roestis, pancakes -- we were stuffed.

After packing up in the room and loading the car we leave Interlaken in
the rain and set our destination to Como, Italy.  We start off climbing
through a pass over 7000 feet high before we descend again and reach the
autobahn.  Most of the way we are in the clouds.  Near the top of the
pass, the clouds part a bit near "Steingletscher" or "stone glacier" and
we make a pit stop and take some pictures, too.  The drive is very slow
because of the twisty road and the clouds.  Once we hit the autobahn, we
start cruising again.

We drive through an even longer tunnel than the one billed as the second
longest in the world.  Hmmm.  It really is very tedious driving almost
16 miles in a tunnel with two-way traffic.  I wonder how they ventilate
such a thing?  Once out of the tunnel we find ourselves in Ticini, the
last province of Switzerland before Italy.  It is practicly Italian.
It's amazing how this little country is split into French German and
Italian.  Once we reach Italy, the weather turns worse.  It really
starts to rain and keeps on raining and pouring all the way to Como.

Como is a great disappointment to all of us.  Haze, smog, and a very
crowded city don't sit well with us after the clear, clean, lowly
populated villages of Austria, Liechtenstein, and Switzerland that we've
just come from.  We find the hotel that we picked out of the tour book
earlier by chance.  Finding a parking space in the maze of one-way
streets raises tension levels even more.  The rooms are very expensive.
They have no computer connections.  A suite, however, can be rented for
just 60,000 Lire more and it has a fax line -- just what a modem needs.
We take it.  The room is actually quite nice an faces Lake Como.  On a
clear day, when everyone in the piazza below is at home, this could
actually be quite nice.  But now you can't see the lake much and it is
very crowded and noisy below the hotel windows.

Parking is a pain, especially since it is several blocks away and since
it is still raining pretty hard.  We unpack and get settled and decide
to visit Bellagio since Dietrich had talked of it so nicely when
recollecting his visit to Italy.

We try to drive to Bellagio but should have taken the ferry.  The drive
is awful -- like a bad video game.  Lots of cars going way too fast on
way too narrow a road which is way to curvy.  I only swipe one car's
side mirror.  Luckily the mirrors of both cars are flippable and no
damage is done.  We drive for a long time and keep looking for a
pullout.  There are none.  Finally, the road widens and we stop, letting
the raft of cars behind us pass.  We see a sign that indicates we're not
even half-way to Bellagio yet.  We decide to turn around, eat dinner,
and stay in the room.  We hope for better day tomorrow.
