From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Trip 1998 -- part 12
Date: Wed, 7 Oct 1998 18:36:24 EDT

Hi again,

Here's part 12.  Part 13 isn't finished writing yet.  The writing of part 14
hasn't even started.  Evenings, used to write the journals, are getting later
and later.  It's
0030 again and we're going on a road trip tomorrow -- but that's getting ahead
of myself.  That'll be covered in part 15.

I'll still be writing this.  I hope you're still reading it.

Cheers,
Rainer


Monday, 10/5

It's 1530 right now.  We just crossed the German border on the train to
Berlin.  The day's been a good one.  We started it off with the last
breakfast at the City Hotel, then back to the room to pack.  There is
actually a little bit of space in places of our backpacks.  I'm really
glad that we sent that package to Portland.  I went to pay the bill and
was quite surprised.  I'd heard horror stories about the surcharges for
telephone calls.  But, even with our over 50 calls, the bill was less
than I expected and the most expensive call was only 4 guilders (for
some reason abbreviated Dfl).  We packed the car and headed one last
time down the main street in Scheveningen.  Since we had ample time,
Vera wanted to drive by one more school that she had gone too.  We did,
but we're not sure that it was the right one since nothing seemed
familiar to her.

We ended up on the Binkhornslaan, found  BP station that wouldn't honor
our BP credit card (but would take Visa) and filled the tank with 26
liters for 56.50 Dfl.  The Hertz place was just down the street and even
had a parking space in front of the office.  Since only one guy was
manning the small office he couldn't drive us to the Central Station.
We were not going to walk this time!  He was kind enough to call a cab,
which arrived in few minutes.

The cab driver helped with all the baggage and was hoping that he would
drive us to Schiphol, the airport in Amsterdam.  Only 97 Dfl, what a
deal.  No, just to the Central Station.  You're probably going to take
the train to Schiphol, then, right?  No, we're going to Berlin.  We
kidded back and forth.  He dropped us off at the front door for 15 Dfl
and I gave him a good tip, telling him that I hoped his next fare would
want to go the airport.  He laughed and waved good bye.

We had about an hour to spare at Central Station.  I found a bench in
front of the huge train departure board and sat myself down with our
baggage.  Monika and Vera went exploring, but not until I'd given them
some more guilders -- they were really going shopping.  The Dutch travel
coordinator ensured that we didn't have to get any local train tickets
and off they went.  Our train to Amersfoort wasn't even on the board
yet.  It's kind of neat to watch the board flip over as trains come and
go every few minutes.

Monika and Vera returned with Dutch drinking song CD and the 4 Divas CD.
Guess who bought which?

The 12:36 to Amersfoort appeared on the board.  Amersfoort wasn't listed
as the destination of the train, rather it was in the "via" column.  I
noticed then that there was a 12:06 to almost the same place with
Amersfoort in the "via" column, too.  We checked, and agreed that we
could take the earlier train.  I get pretty anxious about making
connections so getting to Amersfoort a half hour earlier made me feel
better.  The train left right on time and sped along at a very quick
clip.  You have to be sure to watch which cars you get in -- there are
both first and second class sections.

We asked two different trains people walking around Amersfoort to be
sure that track 2 was where the train to Berlin was leaving from.  It
was they said.  A quick snack of patats frits and 7 up was lunch.  The
train for Berlin changed over to track one at the last minute.  Luckily
we didn't have to go down the stairs and over to another track, we just
had to move from one side of the train departure area to the other.  Car
12 contained our reserved seats.  It was the last car of the train.  We
hustled to get there.  The train only stops for a minute -- literally.
With bags stowed it was time to relax for 6 hours -- which is what we're
doing now.  I trip to the Bistro car and a draft pils helped, too.

Car 12 appears not to be electrically connected to the rest of the
train.  The heat and lights are off.  It's pleasant now, but Vera's
already put on her extra sweat shirt, and when we go through a tunnel
you can't see a thing.  I asked the conductor about it.  The stopped the
train shortly out of Osnabrueck on a side track.  It appears that the
heat may now be slightly on, but still no lights.

Turns out the heat went off again.  The lights came on intermittently but
stayed mostly off.  As it got later, it became pretty uncomfortable with
respect to the heat, and you couldn't read.  The conductor came through
and told people the should move to another car.  The only other first
class car was full, so we ended up in second class.  It was light and
warmer, but more smokey.  We decided to go to the Bistro car for a
dinner/snack -- but they only had one pizza left.  Back to second class.

We arrived in Berlin just a few minutes late.  My cousin, Thomas, wife,
Hanelore, were there to meet us.  Vera and Monika both were given a
rose.  It was very nice to be met, to not have to figure out which way
to go, to have help with the baggage, and to have a car to drive to the
hotel in.  Unfortunately, the car wasn't big enough for all of us and
all of the luggage.   Luckily the hotel was just a block or two away, so
Hanelore decided to walk over an meet us there.

Number 5 Meineckestrasse was not what an American tourist would
recognize as having a hotel in it.  Number 5 looked like the front door
to a typical apartment building in Berlin.  There were not lights of any
sort indicating that there was any business going on here.  Thomas rang
the bell for the Kolumbus Hotel and the lady answering the intercom
pushed the buzzer so we could open the huge front door.  She gave
instruction to take the lift to the third floor.  The lift was only big
enough to hold one person and most of the baggage.  The rest waited for
the lift to run again.  The "hotel" occupied one half of the third
floor.  The 20 rooms were off a long hallway that had very creaky floor
boards.  Our room, #20, was the last one in the hall (actually around a
couple of corners).  The room itself was huge in all dimensions, but
most notably in the vertical one -- the ceilings were at least 10 or 12
feet high!  There was a little side room with an extra bed.  The room
had a sink and a shower in one corner of what seemed like a living room.
The WC was just down the hall, as was a second shower.

We were greeted by a sweet lady who could be your great aunt.  She spoke
continual German to everyone and insisted that Thomas and Hanelore (she
referred to them as "the relatives") accompany us down the hall and to
the room.  She immediately fetched a vase for the two roses.  She gave
detailed instructions on use of the three keys -- one for the room
itself, one to the main hall door from the landing of the third floor,
and one for the front door of the building.  She told us about
breakfast, 7-11, in the side room we passed just after entering.  She
wished us a good stay in Berlin and a good night.

Monika immediately inspected the telephone and noticed that the cord was
not removable from either the phone or the wall -- just like at the
Esmeralda in Paris.  There would be no email tonight or tomorrow
morning.  Not a good sign, if you catch my drift.  We basically dropped
our bags and went walking down the Kuhrfuerstendam, probably the most
popular street in Berlin, looking for a place to eat.  We walked past
the famous Kaiser Wilhelm Church -- a bombed out remnant left standing
from the war -- to a Moevenpick restaurant.  Unfortunately, the only
table for 5 still needed cleaning.  Fortunately, we could order drinks
and there where lots of seats at a counter.  Unfortunately, the menu
available at the counter was all in German (surprise).  Fortunately,
when we were seated Vera and Monika were given English versions of the
menu.  Unfortunately there was nothing on the menu that Monika wanted to
eat.  Fortunately, we convinced her to have dessert first and have
dinner later (we saw a Golden Arches on the way to this place).
Unfortunately, the chocolate mousse wasn't that great.  Most of the rest
of the dinner was pretty good.  I liked what I had.  The pilsner (pils)
was also much better than any beer on the trip so far -- even though it
wasn't dark beer.  Thomas paid the bill -- which was very nice, too.

We left following the McD signs (300 meters).  The weird thing about the
sign was readable from the direction we were walking had an arrow that
was intended to be viewed as a three dimensional object pointing out of
the two dimensional sign.  It was really pointing in the direction from
which we had come!  First time for such a sign for anyone in this group.

Since arrival in the train station was one in which we were met by
people, I forgot in all of the excitement to stop at the ATM and get
some Deutsch Marks.  We found a bank along the 300 meters to McD's.  The
ATM is inside a glassed in room.  You need to ATM card just to enter the
room.  That was strange.  Then, the ATM refused, without explanation, to
dispense the 1000 DM I'd asked for.  A message came up that this machine
was out of service.  I tried the other machine and asked for 500 DM.
Same result.  Oh oh.  We left the room and continued walking to the
Arches.  I passed another bank and tried again.  Same result.  I
borrowed some German money from my cousin and planned to go to the bank
first thing next day.  I wondered, though, what the problem was.  Did
those kids in Paris get more than the 100F?  Did they get Vera's PID and
possible an account number?  Was all our money withdrawn?  Was the ATM
just out of cash?  Would all three machines be out of cash?  Did the
Dutch police have an APB out for me because of the pump house parking
incident?  So many questions.  No answers.

We found the MacDonald's, bought some dinner for Monika, and went back
to the Kolumbus Hotel.  We passed a couple of quiet pubs along the way.
The German speaking part of the group still had lots of stuff to talk
about.  Monika and Vera were happy going up to the room and calling it a
day.  I walked them upstairs, trying out all three keys along the way,
and then when back down to meet Thomas and Hanelore in one of the pubs
for a last beer.  We talked about a lot of things in a short amount of
time.  It is much more efficient not to translate everything.  I realize
from Holland how out-of-touch one gets when one doesn't understand the
language.  All through dinner I'd try to translate what Thomas and
Hanelore were saying so Vera and Monika could stay informed and then
translate what Vera and Monika were saying to Thomas and Hanelore would
know what was going on.  Needless to say, I was the last one to finish
my dinner.  This reminds me of a funny incident in Holland (this should
probably be a new paragraph, huh?) when Vera was doing the same thing --
translating back and forth She lapsed in and out of English a lot more,
however.  And at one point, after having had an interchange in English
with her Dutch relatives, turned to Monika and me and translated into
English what she'd been talking about.  We all had to laugh about that
one.

Since Hanelore had to work the next day, we called it quits about 2330.
I fiddled with the three keys in the dark -- did you know that
stairwells in Europe are typically not lit?  You have to find a light
switch, usually with a little light in it so you can find it in the
dark.  The switch is on a timer and shuts the light off after a short
while.  I walked all the stairs rather than taking the lift and really
felt like a high school kid sneaking in home late from a date or
something.  It was all very quiet and dimly lit in the hotel halls.  And
even though I walked very slowly, the creaking floor boards sounded
very, very loud.  The key to the room didn't work since Vera had locked
the door by hand.  Luckily, she was still awake, and opened the door
after my fiddling with the lock for a while.

We talked for a while and brought each other up to speed on what had
happened in the last couple of hours.  It was now just past midnight.  I
tried calling my Dad on the telephone since I'd received messages that
my Mom had to go back to the hospital, but never figured out how to get
an outside line.  Phones, like toilets, all operate differently in Europe.
This phone had a black button that you needed to push to get an outside
line.  How are you supposed to know that?

Monika had fallen asleep on my side of the bed, so I said goodnight, and
went to the side room.  The feather bed cover appeared at first to be
way too short.  I figured out that it had been folded in half and then
lay down and went pretty much right to sleep in the room with the 12
foot high ceilings.
