From: Rainer7735@aol.com
Subject: Rainer's Europe Trip 1998 -- part 15
Date: Wed, 14 Oct 1998 04:31:37 EDT

Okay, here comes some more.  I got caught up a little,

Cheers,
Rainer

Thursday, 10/8 -- part 15

Today the plan was to drive to Pasewalk, a small city not far from the
Polish border, where my father grew up.  Vera and I had scoped out the
map yesterday and figured that from where we were in the southeast
corner of Berlin it would be easiest, since Thomas was joining us for
the trip, for him to drive to Bohnsdorf, rather than for us to pick him
up from his apartment in downtown Berlin.  He showed up promptly at 9
and we headed out.  Thomas told us that it would be faster to drive the
autobahn through the city and then take the ring north and east of
Berlin.  So we practically drove past his apartment on the the way
around the city.  The traffic was heavy, but it kept moving.

Pasewalk is about 130 kilometers from Berlin.  I'd figured that we would
be there in about 90 minutes.  Well, the autobahn in what was formerly
the DDR, is not in good shape.  Where traffic is moving in both
directions, the old, original cement plates have shifted enough that the
speed limit is reduced to 80 kph.  The bumps played havoc with the Sony
Discman being used in the back seat.  It was even difficult to read the
map with the constant bump, bump, bump, bump.  Many stretches of the old
autobahn are under construction.  Here the traffic was reduced to two
way traffic with only one lane in each direction.

The scenery was mostly farm country and forested areas.  We learned from
Thomas that all of the forests we saw, in fact all of the forests in
Germany, are replanted forests.  The forests we saw were mostly deciduous
trees -- quite a change from what one thinks of as forest in the
Northwest.  Most of the trees still had their foliage, and many of the
leaves were starting to show fall colors.  A light rain fell most of the
way to Prenzlau.

We left the autobahn near Prenzlau and continued the last 30 km on a
small country road -- also under construction in places.  We passed one
area with at least 14 huge, high-tech windmills used to generate
electricity.  The mills looked like big airplane propellers.  Even
though it was not very windy, they all turned together in mechanized
synchronization.

We arrived in Pasewalk around 12:30.  I parked the car near what
appeared to be a central market square on the southern side of town.
Even here in Pasewalk one had to buy a parking permit from the
dispensing machine at the end of the street.  We walked around visiting
the remnants of the old city wall and gate.  The Pasewalk Historical
Museum in one of the gate towers was closed until 1400, so we looked for
a place to eat.  We found the Kartoffelkeller, or potato cellar, in the
basement of one of the buildings around the market square.  We were the
only customers at this point and found a cozy table in one corner of the
keller.  We ordered a very potato-ey lunch -- potato soup, baked potato,
fried potatoes, potato pancakes -- all very good.  The waitress would
not part with one of the menus that we asked to take along.  I left her
a good tip anyway.

We walked past a bakery and got some cheesecake to go plus a copy of the
local daily newspaper; then to the tourist information booth and an
acquisition of more Pasewalk brochures and pamphlets to send to my
father.  The museum was open by now and featured drawings and paintings
from a local artist.  A Mr.  Wieland, unrelated, with whom my father had
been in contact, only works on weekends, so we were not able to say
hello.  We toured the museum anyway and took some more pictures.

We drove to a garden center who's address my father had given me.  Mr.
Zimmerman was supposed to be the owner.  Mr.  Zimmerman and my father,
although several years apart, grew up in this city and several of the
people they knew were in common.  Well, the garden center was owned by a
Zimmerman, but not the right one.  So we got directions to the flower
shop, close to the market square where we started, where we could find
Mr.  Zimmerman.  At the flower shop we met the wife of Karl Otto
Zimmerman.  She said that her grandfather was probably at home and
called him when we told her who we were.  We got directions again --
right next door to the garden center from which we just came -- and went
back.  Mr.  Karl Zimmerman welcomed us at the door and invited us in.
His wife hurried back from somewhere, set a table cloth, made coffee,
and offered us some crumb cake she's made.  We delivered greetings from
my father, received greetings to pass back to him and well wishes for my
mother and her recovery from her hospital stay.  We chatted some, tried
to find out if my father was good in school, found out that Mr.
Zimmerman and my father were not in the same year (Mr.  Zimmerman said,
"We were probably neither one good students"), and received instructions
on how to find the gas station that was owned by my grandfather.   We
also found out that Mr.  Zimmerman's father purchased his first car from
my grandfather who, in addition to running the gas station, ran a
garage, driving school, apparently sold automobiles, too.  We said
goodbye after taking a few pictures.

The gas station is not very old compared to the age of the town wall,
tower, and gates, but it is under a "Denkmalschutz", or historical
building protection program.  The automobile workshop across the street
is not standing any longer.  Mr.  Zimmerman said that it was torn down a
few years ago.  The gas station itself is covered with posters and
graffiti as you'll see from the pictures.  You can still see were the
gas tanks were and some other structures.  I took pictures from every
angle to bring back.  It was already after 1600 and we remembered that
it was a long drive back, so we took one last look and left Pasewalk.

The Landstrasse to Prenzlau wasn't as busy as at noon.  Once on the
autobahn, the steady bump, bump, bump became very mesmerizing.  Thomas
switched off with me as driver and he drove the rest of the way to
Bohnsdorf.  Traffic in Berlin was pretty heavy in every direction.
Although we were glad not be headed in the opposite direction at one
point where we saw two large trucks stuck in a very narrow two-lane
section of highway.  The lanes had been narrowed because of the detour,
and traffic piled up behind the stuck trucks for miles.  The rain and
clouds had mostly left and we got to watch a pretty sunset on the way
into and through Berlin.

Once back in Bohnsdorf, Thomas had to turn around almost right away,
just enough time for splitting a Schwarzbier, and drive back into Berlin
to go home.  It was 2030 now, we made a simple dinner and fiddled with
our respective stuff until the soon-to-come end of day.
