From: Rainer
Subject: Rainer's Europe Trip 1998 -- part 13
Date: Sat, 10 Oct 1998 19:47:01 EDT

Greetings.

I caught up a bit with the journal entries today on the train to Munich and
in the hotel tonight.  I'm sending part 13 tonight.   We haven't seen the
sun since Monday in Berlin.  It's now Saturday (actually Sunday if you
go by the clock).  Lot's of cars are driving around Munich honking their
horns (you can hear them on the 6th floor of the Holiday Inn) celebrating
Turkey's soccer victory over Germany.  There are lot of Turkish fans here.
I hope they stop soon.

Anyway, here's the update.
Cheers,
Rainer

Tuesday, 10/6

Apartment buildings in Berlin are typically built around an inner court
yard, or Hof.  The Hof of the building that this hotel is part of was
being renovated.  You could tell because the the construction workers
doing the renovation started at 0700.  The acoustics of a Hof are quite
good.  A person standing on the scaffolding of the fourth floor can
easily talk to a person standing under the scaffolding on the ground
without having to yell.  The guys doing the renovation liked hearing
their echoes of the Hof walls, I think.  So they yelled.  They also did
a lot of clanking and whatnot which was quite audible to me in the side
room with the high ceilings.

The sky was blue and the sun was starting to shine on the Hof walls.
Vera stirred and we got up.  We took turns creaking down the hall to the
bathroom.  I went to the breakfast room and brought back some coffee.
The coffee in Berlin is good, more like coffee at home, and unlike the
espresso served in France.  We made plans for the day.  Since the
weather looked like it would be favorable, we decided that we should
visit the Berlin Zoo this morning, something we wanted to do anyway.

Monika woke up soon, and we all creaked down the hall to the breakfast
room for, duh, breakfast.  The friendly German aunt greeted us right
away and asked us if we wanted coffee or tea.  Kids in Germany typically
drink coffee or tea at much earlier age than kids in the US.  We did
several go-arounds before the friendly aunt understood that only Vera
and I wanted coffee, no Monika did not want tea, she wanted orange
juice.

Breakfast consisted of a boiled egg, rolls, bread, meat, cheese, and a
large assortments of jams, honey, and preserves.  We were seated in a
sort of bay window seat.  The sun shone in and it looked like it would
be a good day.

We walked down Meinekestrasse to the Ku-dam and took several pictures of
the bombed-out church (Gedaechtniskirche, or literally, think-about- this
church).  Monika and Vera bought some postcards.  I went to the bank
again and, presto changeo, the ATM card worked first time.  I guess I
can eliminate the worst of my worries.  I also converted our remaining
Guilders into Deutsch Marks since we weren't going back to Holland on
this trip.

We split up at this point, my family going back to the hotel to pack and
me going back to the train station to pick up the rental car.
Bahnhofzoo (the train station at the zoo) is a huge place.  I couldn't
find a Hertz sign, but I did find a sign on a counter to pick up rental
cars.  The clerk and I had just a short exchange.  After he called
someone he told me to wait.  Turns out the Hertz office has no space at
the train station.  They schedule a time for you to pick up the car, and
you have to pick up the car at that time because they drive to the train
station and wait for you at this clerk's desk.  The time on our
reservation was 1000.  It was now 1105.  So, the Hertz person had
already been to the station at 1000, and since I wasn't there, she left.
She returned at 1120 and we did the paperwork at the clerk's counter --
driver's license, Visa card, passport -- damn, I'd left the prepaid
verification letter in the hotel.  The Hertz lady was very polite and
asked if I would bring the letter by the office today.  I told her I
would.  She walked with me into the train station parking lot, showed me
the car, a new VW Polo, gave me the key and wished me a good day.

The VW is a dark blue, a welcome relief to the chartreuse of the Opel
Corsa we had in Holland.  It was a four door and seemed roomy to the
last two cars -- even though it wasn't much bigger.  It felt comfortable
driving the VW (surprised?) even though the clutch is a bit stiff and
engages in just milimeters of releasing it.  The doors, the locks,
everything is typical Volkswagen.  The doors shut nicely.  Reverse is
where I expect it to be.  The headlight switch glows in the dark so you
can find it.  There are not idiot alarms for seat belts or keys left in
the ignition -- you just can't lock the driver's side door without a
key.  I've missed driving a VW.  Gonna sell the Chevy Van when possible.

Okay, so I stalled the car as soon as I drove forward after backing it
out of the parking space.  And I stalled it a couple of more times after
that, in traffic, too.  But I still like driving this car.

I left the train station and quickly realized that I didn't know exactly
how to get to the hotel -- most travel had been on foot so far.  I drove
around for a while, but eventually ended up in a Parkhaus (do you know
enough German to know what that might be?) just across the street from
Number 6 Meinekestrasse -- very close to the hotel.  I parked in one of
the first spots I could find.  I didn't know why this level was marked
Frauenparkplatz.  I asked my cousin about it later and he said that
those spots were specifically for women drivers -- closer to the exit
doors for security reasons.  I thought they were, perhaps, just wider
spaces so it was easier to park.  Oh well.  Since I have to "Frauen"
with me I hoped that it was okay and that I wouldn't end up with another
yellow slip of paper under the windshield wiper when I returned.

The Berlin Zoo is a short walk from the Hotel Kolumbus.  Although the
sun was shining, the wind made it a very brisk day.  Unlike the Portland
Zoo, the animals in the Berlin Zoo were very active.  The lion was
pacing back and forth, his frequent roars and growls carrying through
the entire zoological gardens.  In fact all of the large cats were
active.  One of the giant pandas was pacing, the other asleep.  But,
before we left, both were quite mobile.  It's ironic that one of the
first animals we happened to see was the hooded crow.  This is a
European bird, new to us and new for this trip, that is all over the
zoo.  The are more abundant than sparrows or starlings.  They are in all
respects like a common crow except that only their heads and wings are
black.  The rest of their bodies are a cool grey.

By 1400 we were all quite chilly and decided to head out of the zoo and
find a place to eat.  On the below-ground level of the complex where
we'd eaten the night before we found Allegro, a nice Italian
restaurant.  Pizzas in Europe (so far) are always considered to be
individual ones.  There is no choice of crust.  There is a considerable
choice of toppings, although this seems to vary slightly from country to
country.  The names of the pizzas, however, seem to be standardized.  A
"marguerite" is the same in France, Holland, and Germany -- cheese pizza
with tomato sauce.  It's also amazing that fresh strawberry desserts are
available in most places.  This is October.

After lunch we collected our cars and drove to Bohnsdorf after a pit
stop at my cousin's apartment and some more coffee and cake.  Coffee and
cake are a very large part of people's afternoons in Germany.  I was
stuffed and didn't want to think about dinner again, ever.

The drive to Bohnsdorf took 40 minutes.  The traffic in Berlin isn't as
bad as in Paris, but it's still bad.  Since I was following Thomas'
Audi, I didn't pay attention to where I was going as much as I would
have liked to.  This was a crucial error when we were going to drive
this stretch without a pace car to follow.  I had totally forgotten
about the GPS in my backpack.  This was exactly the reason that I took
it along with me in the first place.

The traffic was very dense all the way to Bohnsdorf.  Streets change
names when there's just a slight bend in the road.  For the casual
visitor Berlin is a very confusing place to navigate.  The streets got
narrower and finally turned to cobblestone as we got closer and closer
to the Priebornerstrasse where I grew up.  Although I'd had the
opportunity to see and stay in the house on one of the weekends of my
Munich workshop with Siemens, it was still very exciting to get closer
and finally to get there.

You'll be able to see form the pictures -- the tiny house has a bathroom
with shower, a kitchen with dining nook, a living room, and a bedroom .
It's property is bordered with a thick hedge on three sides.  I recognize
a lot of it from the pictures that I'd seen over the years.  But there
is that occasional feeling of deja vu that I first experienced in May
when I was puling weeds in the back yard.  Sitting on the lawn my visual
perspective of the small house was closer to that of a little kid, and
even though it been over 45 years since I'd been there, I could catch
glimpses of childhood memories -- what was around the corner from the
house, where I rode my bike, the garden, the fruit trees, eating whole
apples, digging in the dirt.  They were brief glimpses and they
validated that this was the place of my childhood.

Thomas showed us how to adjust the hot water controls for the heat and
the shower.  Hanelore showed us where the bedding and towels were and
what had been stocked in the full refrigerator.  We opened a bottle of
wine and finally some "schwarzbier".  We chatted a bit more and then we
were left alone after getting some brief instructions on where a store
and a McDonald's was.  We unpacked, tried out the phone connection (the
German phone connections are different again than the ones in France and
Holland -- but I had acquired the correct converter during my May trip).
We fiddled with the A pulse dial instead of tone, and a few other things
-- and were online.

A short drive down the well-paved Waltersdorferstrasse landed us at the
Golden Arches restaurant.  The service was efficient, and quite witty in
the well-known Berliner style.  We'd hoped to get some groceries, too,
and found a huge Metro store still open.  We had difficulty finding the
entrance.  I asked a man pushing a shopping cart full of stuff to his
car where we could go in.  He pointed it out but indicated that the
store was probably closed.  It was after 2000.  Turns out the store was
still open, but that we couldn't shop there because it was like a
Costco, and we didn't have a membership card.   The woman at the
entrance told us where a "regular" grocery store was which we'd go look
for it in the morning.

Finally, we were back "home", fiddled with the hot water controls to
ensure that all of us could shower.  The first one and half showers were
okay.  The last one and half showers were on the very cool side.  We
quickly found our respective "surfaces" again although they were more
dynamic than in Holland.  Monika's either on the sofa reading, on the
floor in front of the little table holding the laptop, or in bed (when
the sofa was pulled out into a bed).  Vera's was either the kitchen
table or the bed.  Mine was either the large chair to flip through the
TV channels (when the chair didn't have stuff in it), the kitchen table
when the laptop was free, or the bed.

Vera and Monika retired to their bed surfaces around midnight.  I stayed
at the kitchen table until close to 0300.  I was ruminating over all
that had happened so far and what was still to come.  I wrote a lot but I
thought about stuff even more.  The schwarzbier that Thomas and Hanelore
had so thoughtfully stocked in the hall wasn't making me sleepy, no
matter how many I drank.  It was a full day.  I lay down still wide awake.
